Hi! My name is Shawna on behalf of Expert
Village. In this clip, we are going to talk
about needles. There are two types of needles
that you will definitely have to have. You
will have to have sewing machine needles and
some type of hand needle, just for finishing
work and things like that. The needles that
I use most are Schmetz needles, and they are
just kind of a universal needle, so they fit
in most machines. A 7010 is a little bit lighter
weight to use on little bit lighter weight
fabric, such as silks and chiffons. 8012 is
the medium needle. It is the one that use
for everything, and then there is the 90 size
and the 100 size, and it goes on from there.
But if you have a nice range of 70 to 100,
just in the normal needle, then you will have
a needle for almost everything. There are
specialty needles, like a Zwing needle that
has a wing needle and a straight needle. A
twin needle has 2 needles coming off the tip
for doing pin tucking and different things
like that. There are topstitching needles.
They are a stronger needle and they have a
bigger hole for the topstitching thread. Jeans
needles, which help a lot when you are doing
a hem on jeans. It is just a stronger needle
and it helps to finish that stitch. Leather
needles, microtex needles, embroidery needles,
quilting needles. There are lots and lots
of needles, but your basic is your 7010, 8012
and 9014, which is the universal size. In
hem needles, there are lots of different needles,
and in that also there is quilting, there’s
betweens, which are the same type of needle,
darners which are a long needle with a larger
hole, and you can use those in embroidery
if you want to. There are embroidery needles,
tapestry needles, sharp needles. The ones
I usually have around though are a quilting
needle, a sharps needle, just because it is
a nice size and doesn’t have a huge eye,
but it has a good eye. And then darners for
bigger things that I may be taking through
a hole, so bigger threads. So needles are
a must and you just have to both, hand needles
and sewing machine needles.